<h2 align="left"> Master's Thesis:</h2>
<h3 align="left">Multiuser Human-Machine Interface through Augmented Reality:</h3>
<p align="left">
 Extended Reality has become very popular over the last few years, this is due to the expansion on this technology and new applications in multiple fields. This universal paradigm is comprised of concepts like Virtual Reality, Augmented Reality and Mixed Reality - the subject of this dissertation is primarily focused on Augmented Reality (AR). This technology is capable of increasing the user experience by overlaying reality with virtual elements and due to the rapid evolution of the industry, this approach is being ingrained in manufacturing systems. 

The aim of this project is to present and assess the main concepts needed to understand the implementation of a multiuser interface for communication between human and machine through the use of Augmented Reality. In order to achieve this, multiple topics were researched: from Augmented Reality and its modern applications to Human-Machine Interaction and how it is employed to optimize collaboration. In-between there are still many other fields needed to be referenced, like the type or AR display devices, how the AR tracking is done and how collaborative robots function. It is also investigated the different type of User Interfaces and how the concept is applied to AR. Additionally, it is also performed research on the implementation of Multiuser Systems through the use of networking solutions in an AR environment.

After assimilating the paradigms investigated throughout the report, it is proposed a methodology to accomplish the goal of the project: With the assistance of an Augmented Reality device, a group of users should be able to grab and control a virtual model of the machine simultaneously. The users should also have the possibility to visualize the statistics of the machinery and its processes due to the overlaying of an interface to the users’ field of view. The system's architecture requirements are then broken down into smaller components in order to plan for its implementation, and since the system needs to withstand multiple concurrent users it is also proposed the creation of a multiuser protocol through the employment and adaptation of an open-sourced network library - Mirror. The architecture is planned to be capable of generating multiple application server instances in a single IP address by taking advantage of port multiplexing and a master server that controls and monitors each instance.

Then the actual implementation of the system is described in detail, and how each technology was incorporated into the project. The main challenges that needed to be overcome for the project's success and their respective implemented solutions are exposed and explained. The integration of each component is elucidated in a sequential method by decomposing the application development into multiple scenes. Finally, the project is evaluated to test its hard limits and analyze potential areas of improvement by performing multiple stress tests on the server system. It is also taken into account user feedback on the application, in order to check if it is performing as expected. 
</p>
<hr>


  
